*: add data type default values (#16693)
pingcap/docs: data-type-default-values.md

The `DEFAULT` value clause in a data type specification indicates a default value for a column. The default value must be a constant and cannot be a function or an expression. But for the time type, you can specify the `NOW`, `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP`, `LOCALTIME`, and `LOCALTIMESTAMP` functions as the default for `TIMESTAMP` and `DATETIME` columns.

> The `BLOB`, `TEXT`, and `JSON` columns can be assigned a default value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports [specifying expressions as default values](#specify-expressions-as-default-values) for [`BLOB`](/data-type-string.md#blob-type), [`TEXT`](/data-type-string.md#text-type), and [`JSON`](/data-type-json.md#json-type) data types.
```

- For numeric types, the default is 0. If declared with the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute, the default is the next value in the sequence.
- For date and time types other than `TIMESTAMP`, the default is the appropriate "zero" value for the type. For `TIMESTAMP`, the default value is the current date and time.
- For string types other than `ENUM`, the default value is the empty string. For `ENUM`, the default is the first enumeration value.

## Specify expressions as default values

> **Warning:**
>

> > - Currently, this feature is experimental. It is not recommended that you use it in production environments. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, this feature is experimental. It is not recommended that you use it in production environments. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.
```

> Starting from v8.0.13, MySQL supports specifying expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause. For more information, see [Explicit Default Handling as of MySQL 8.0.13](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/data-type-defaults.html#data-type-defaults-explicit). TiDB has implemented this feature and supports specifying expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.0.13, MySQL supports specifying expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause. For more information, see [Explicit Default Handling as of MySQL 8.0.13](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/data-type-defaults.html#data-type-defaults-explicit). TiDB has implemented this feature and supports specifying some expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause.
```

> Starting from v8.0.13, MySQL supports specifying expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause. For more information, see [Explicit Default Handling as of MySQL 8.0.13](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/data-type-defaults.html#data-type-defaults-explicit). TiDB has implemented this feature and supports specifying some expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from 8.0.13, MySQL supports specifying expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause. For more information, see [Explicit default handling as of MySQL 8.0.13](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/data-type-defaults.html#data-type-defaults-explicit). TiDB has implemented this feature and supports specifying some expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause.
```

> Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, the `BLOB`, `TEXT`, and `JSON` data types support default values, but the default values can only be set as expressions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, the [`BLOB`, `TEXT`](/data-type-string.md), and [`JSON`](/data-type-json.md) data types support default values, but the default values can only be set as expressions.
```

> Starting from 8.0.13, MySQL supports specifying expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause. For more information, see [Explicit default handling as of MySQL 8.0.13](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/data-type-defaults.html#data-type-defaults-explicit). TiDB has implemented this feature and supports specifying some expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause.
> 
> Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports assigning default values to `BLOB`, `TEXT`, and `JSON` data types. However, these default values can only be set as expressions.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from 8.0.13, MySQL supports specifying expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause. For more information, see [Explicit default handling as of MySQL 8.0.13](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/data-type-defaults.html#data-type-defaults-explicit). 

TiDB has implemented this feature and supports specifying some expressions as default values in the `DEFAULT` clause. Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports assigning default values to `BLOB`, `TEXT`, and `JSON` data types. However, these default values can only be set as expressions. The following is an example of `BLOB`:
```

> Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, the [`BLOB`, `TEXT`](/data-type-string.md), and [`JSON`](/data-type-json.md) data types support default values, but the default values can only be set as expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB supports assigning default values to `BLOB`, `TEXT`, and `JSON` data types. However, these default values can only be set as expressions.
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE t2 (b BLOB DEFAULT (rand()));
```

TiDB currently supports the following expressions:

> * `RAND`, `UUID`, `UUID_TO_BIN`

Author: ```suggestion
* `RAND`, `UUID`, `UUID_TO_BIN`
```

Starting from TiDB v8.0.0, the `DEFAULT` clause supports using the following expressions to set default values.

> * `UPPER(SUBSTRING_INDEX(user(),'@',1))`

Author: ```suggestion
* `UPPER(SUBSTRING_INDEX(user(), '@', 1))`
```

> * `UPPER(SUBSTRING_INDEX(user(), '@', 1))`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `UPPER(SUBSTRING_INDEX(USER(), '@', 1))`
```

> * `REPLACE(UPPER(uuid()), '-', '')`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `REPLACE(UPPER(UUID()), '-', '')`
```

> * [`RAND()`](/functions-and-operators/numeric-functions-and-operators.md), [`UUID()`](/functions-and-operators/miscellaneous-functions.md), [`UUID_TO_BIN()`](/functions-and-operators/miscellaneous-functions.md)

Author: ```suggestion
* [`RAND()`](/functions-and-operators/numeric-functions-and-operators.md)
* [`UUID()`](/functions-and-operators/miscellaneous-functions.md)
* [`UUID_TO_BIN()`](/functions-and-operators/miscellaneous-functions.md)
```

* The `DATE_FORMAT` supports the following formats:

>     * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(),'%Y-%m')`
>     * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(),'%Y-%m-%d')`
>     * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(),'%Y-%m-%d %H.%i.%s')`
>     * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(),'%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s')`
> 
> * `STR_TO_DATE('1980-01-01','%Y-%m-%d')`

Author: ```suggestion
    * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(), '%Y-%m')`
    * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(), '%Y-%m-%d')`
    * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(), '%Y-%m-%d %H.%i.%s')`
    * `DATE_FORMAT(NOW(), '%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s')`

* `STR_TO_DATE('1980-01-01', '%Y-%m-%d')`
```

> **Note:**
>

> > Currently, the `CHANGE COLUMN` and `MODIFY COLUMN` statements do not support using expressions as default values.

Author: ```suggestion
> Currently, the `ADD COLUMN` statement does not support using expressions as default values.
```
